docs: Add `Migrating from Scrapy` guide (#2013)
apify/crawlee-python: docs/guides/scrapy_migration.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: We should mention that Crawlee projects can be executed like regular Python scripts, which makes the execution flow clear and intuitive. Scrapy, by contrast, relies on its own execution system, so understanding the program flow, and especially debugging it step by step, can be more complicated.

Author: Added a mention in `## Conceptual differences`

[Scrapy](https://scrapy.org/) and Crawlee solve the same problem, so most of what you know carries over. The concepts line up almost one to one, and the selector code often moves across without changes. Scrapy parses HTML with [Parsel](https://parsel.readthedocs.io/), and so does Crawlee's <ApiLink to="class/ParselCrawler">`ParselCrawler`</ApiLink>. Your `response.css()` and `response.xpath()` queries keep working on <ApiLink to="class/ParselCrawlingContext#selector">`context.selector`</ApiLink>.

This guide maps Scrapy concepts to their Crawlee equivalents and rewrites a small spider step by step. The examples use <ApiLink to="class/ParselCrawler">`ParselCrawler`</ApiLink> because it's the closest match for a Scrapy spider. The other HTTP option is <ApiLink to="class/BeautifulSoupCrawler">`BeautifulSoupCrawler`</ApiLink>, and the choice between them is covered in the [HTTP crawlers guide](./http-crawlers). For pages that need a browser, Crawlee has <ApiLink to="class/PlaywrightCrawler">`PlaywrightCrawler`</ApiLink>, covered in the [Playwright crawler guide](./playwright-crawler).

> Each section below pairs the Scrapy code with its Crawlee rewrite. Switch the tab to compare the two side by side. The Crawlee examples cap each run with `max_requests_per_crawl` to keep the demos short. The Scrapy equivalent is the `CLOSESPIDER_PAGECOUNT` setting from the built-in `CloseSpider` extension.

Reviewer: > `below` points at another spot on the page, which reads oddly for anyone landing mid-page from search or a deep link. It can just be dropped: "Each section pairs the Scrapy code with its Crawlee rewrite."

## Installation

> Crawlee needs Python 3.10 or later. Install it with the Parsel extra:

Reviewer: Do not mention a specific Python version here please

Author: Updated

| `dont_filter=True` | <ApiLink to="class/Request#from_url">`Request.from_url(always_enqueue=True)`</ApiLink> |
| `allowed_domains` | <ApiLink to="class/EnqueueLinksFunction">`enqueue_links(strategy=...)`</ApiLink> |
| `scrapy.FormRequest` | <ApiLink to="class/Request#from_url">`Request.from_url(method='POST', payload=...)`</ApiLink> |
| Item pipelines | <ApiLink to="class/Dataset">`Dataset`</ApiLink> |
| Downloader / spider middlewares | <ApiLink to="class/Router#use">`router.use()`</ApiLink>, navigation hooks, <ApiLink to="class/HttpClient">HTTP clients</ApiLink> |
| `settings.py` | <ApiLink to="class/Configuration">`Configuration`</ApiLink> + crawler arguments |
| `CONCURRENT_REQUESTS` / `DOWNLOAD_DELAY` | <ApiLink to="class/ConcurrencySettings">`ConcurrencySettings`</ApiLink> |
| `AutoThrottle` | <ApiLink to="class/ThrottlingRequestManager">`ThrottlingRequestManager`</ApiLink> |
| `DEPTH_LIMIT` | `max_crawl_depth` |
| `CLOSESPIDER_PAGECOUNT` | `max_requests_per_crawl` |
| `DOWNLOAD_TIMEOUT` | `navigation_timeout` |
| `ROBOTSTXT_OBEY` | `respect_robots_txt_file` |

> | `RetryMiddleware` | `max_request_retries` |

Reviewer: Could we link to the method or class that defines this attribute? Currently, it is not very helpful because it's unclear which method, function, or class the attribute belongs to.

Applies to all referenced attributes.

Author: Updated

Scrapy routes pages by passing a `callback` to each request. A listing page hands its links to `parse_author`. In Crawlee you attach a `label` to the enqueued requests, then register a handler for that label. Each request goes to the matching handler, and unlabeled requests fall through to the default one. For details, see the [Request router guide](./request-router).

<Tabs groupId="scrapy-migration-labels">
    <TabItem value="scrapy" label="Scrapy">
        <CodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ScrapyAuthorsSource}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="crawlee" label="Crawlee">
        <RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {LabelsExample}
        </RunnableCodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Passing data between handlers

A listing page often holds data you want to keep, then merge with fields from the detail page. Scrapy carries it through `cb_kwargs` (or `Request.meta`). Crawlee carries it through <ApiLink to="class/Request#user_data">`Request.user_data`</ApiLink>, which travels with the request and is available on `context.request.user_data` in the next handler.

> How you attach it depends on the data. When each link carries its own value, like a price that belongs to one book, create a request per URL with <ApiLink to="class/Request#from_url">`Request.from_url(..., user_data=...)`</ApiLink> and add them with <ApiLink to="class/AddRequestsFunction">`add_requests`</ApiLink>. That's what the example below does. When a single value applies to the whole batch, skip the loop and pass `user_data` straight to <ApiLink to="class/EnqueueLinksFunction">`enqueue_links`</ApiLink>.

Reviewer: > same page-relative `below` — name the target instead, e.g. "That's what the Crawlee example does."

<Tabs groupId="scrapy-migration-export">
    <TabItem value="scrapy" label="Scrapy">
        <CodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ScrapyExportSource}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="crawlee" label="Crawlee">
        <RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ExportExample}
        </RunnableCodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

The default (unnamed) <ApiLink to="class/Dataset">`Dataset`</ApiLink> stays on disk after the run finishes, but the next run clears it before starting, since <ApiLink to="class/Configuration#purge_on_start">`Configuration.purge_on_start`</ApiLink> defaults to `True`. To keep data across runs, use a named dataset or turn that option off. For details, see the [Storages guide](./storages). To continue an interrupted crawl from where it stopped, see the [Resuming a paused crawl](../examples/resuming-paused-crawl) example.

## Concurrency and throttling

> 

Reviewer: In the Scrapy example, we show only these settings:

```python
# settings.py
CONCURRENT_REQUESTS = 20
DOWNLOAD_DELAY = 0.5
```

For Crawlee, however, we show the entire executable script. To make the comparison fair and easier to understand, we should highlight only the Crawlee lines that correspond directly to these Scrapy settings.

This applies to most other sections as well.

* Highlight - using one of Docusaurus's code-highlighting features.

Author: Good point. Added Highlight to the examples

This guide maps Scrapy concepts to their Crawlee equivalents and rewrites a small spider step by step. The examples use <ApiLink to="class/ParselCrawler">`ParselCrawler`</ApiLink> because it's the closest match for a Scrapy spider. The other HTTP option is <ApiLink to="class/BeautifulSoupCrawler">`BeautifulSoupCrawler`</ApiLink>, and the choice between them is covered in the [HTTP crawlers guide](./http-crawlers). For pages that need a browser, Crawlee has <ApiLink to="class/PlaywrightCrawler">`PlaywrightCrawler`</ApiLink>, covered in the [Playwright crawler guide](./playwright-crawler).

The Crawlee examples cap each run with <ApiLink to="class/BasicCrawler#__init__">`max_requests_per_crawl`</ApiLink> to keep the demos short. The Scrapy equivalent is the `CLOSESPIDER_PAGECOUNT` setting from the built-in `CloseSpider` extension.

## Installation

Install Crawlee with the Parsel extra:

```bash
pip install 'crawlee[parsel]'
```

For the browser examples, also install Playwright:

```bash
pip install 'crawlee[playwright]'
playwright install
```

## Conceptual differences

> Both frameworks give you a request scheduler, a duplicate filter, retries, and a way to pull data out of pages. The way you wire those pieces together differs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both frameworks give you a request scheduler, filtering of duplicate requests, retries, and a way to pull data out of pages. The way you wire those pieces together differs.
```

> - Scrapy runs on the [Twisted](https://twisted.org/) reactor, and your callbacks are synchronous generators that `yield` items and requests. Crawlee runs on `asyncio`, and handlers are coroutines defined with `async def` that `await` helpers like <ApiLink to="class/PushDataFunction">`push_data`</ApiLink> and <ApiLink to="class/EnqueueLinksFunction">`enqueue_links`</ApiLink>. You write straight-line `async`/`await` code without a reactor.

Reviewer 2: I know this difference is the most fundamental, but as a reader considering a switch who doesn't really care about deep technicalities like Twisted reactors, this is quite heavyweight start. I think casual Python users might know that asyncio exists, but the first sentence containing words like reactor, callbacks, synchronous generators, and yield, might be too much for many. I'd at least move this bullet point down the order and start with something more high level and straightforward, like the `scrapy crawl`, for example.

- Scrapy starts spiders through its own `scrapy crawl` command, so tracing the program flow and debugging it step by step takes extra setup. A Crawlee project is a regular Python script. You run it with `python main.py` and step through it in any debugger.
- A Scrapy spider is a class with a `parse` method and callbacks. Crawlee routes requests through a <ApiLink to="class/Router">`Router`</ApiLink> that dispatches them to handler functions by their `label`.
- Browser rendering, proxy rotation, session management, and storage are part of the framework. In Scrapy you reach for `scrapy-playwright`, proxy middlewares, and feed exporters. In Crawlee these are built in and share one API.

> ## Mapping key concepts

Reviewer 2: Awesome, this is very useful!

| `errback` | <ApiLink to="class/BasicCrawler#failed_request_handler">`failed_request_handler`</ApiLink> |
| `FEEDS` / feed exports | <ApiLink to="class/BasicCrawler#export_data">`export_data`</ApiLink> |
| `CrawlSpider` / `Rules` | <ApiLink to="class/EnqueueLinksFunction">`enqueue_links(selector=..., label=...)`</ApiLink> |
| `HttpProxyMiddleware` | <ApiLink to="class/ProxyConfiguration">`ProxyConfiguration`</ApiLink> |
| `scrapy-playwright` | <ApiLink to="class/PlaywrightCrawler">`PlaywrightCrawler`</ApiLink> |
| `scrapy crawl myspider` | `python main.py` |

## Migrating a spider

Here's the canonical quotes spider from the [Scrapy tutorial](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/intro/tutorial.html). It reads quotes from a listing page and follows the pagination link. The Crawlee version keeps the selectors untouched. The `parse` method becomes the default handler, `yield {...}` becomes <ApiLink to="class/PushDataFunction">`push_data`</ApiLink>, and the manual pagination becomes a single <ApiLink to="class/EnqueueLinksFunction">`enqueue_links`</ApiLink> call.

<Tabs groupId="scrapy-migration-quotes">

>     <TabItem value="scrapy" label="Scrapy">

Reviewer 2: I'd put Crawlee as default tab and Scrapy as something I need to click on 🤔 At least the text before the example prepares me for the Crawlee variant, so it's a bit strange to scroll down and see Scrapy code instead. The design of the tabs is subtle, so I just hope people will notice there are two tabs and they can click and compare.

Maybe the true reason why it feels strange is the design of the tabs. They don't really look like tabs or something one can interact with, unless you're already familiar with them. Just strangely underlined words.

        <CodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ScrapyQuotesSource}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="crawlee" label="Crawlee">
        <RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">

>             {QuotesExample}

Reviewer 2: This example doesn't come out great for Crawlee, because it's almost twice as longer than Scrapy. It's partly because there's a lot of whitespace and comments. I'd personally remove those and keep the code brief in the same way as is the Scrapy example.

There is "Note that:" section below, which explains all the parts, so I'd really get rid of the comments even if just for the sake of a good first impression.

<Tabs groupId="scrapy-migration-export">
    <TabItem value="scrapy" label="Scrapy">
        <CodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ScrapyExportSource}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="crawlee" label="Crawlee">
        <RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ExportExample}
        </RunnableCodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

The default (unnamed) <ApiLink to="class/Dataset">`Dataset`</ApiLink> stays on disk after the run finishes, but the next run clears it before starting, since <ApiLink to="class/Configuration#purge_on_start">`Configuration.purge_on_start`</ApiLink> defaults to `True`. To keep data across runs, use a named dataset or turn that option off. For details, see the [Storages guide](./storages). To continue an interrupted crawl from where it stopped, see the [Resuming a paused crawl](../examples/resuming-paused-crawl) example.

## Concurrency and throttling

> Scrapy tunes throughput through several settings. Crawlee gathers the fixed controls into <ApiLink to="class/ConcurrencySettings">`ConcurrencySettings`</ApiLink> and scales concurrency automatically based on system resources, as described in the [Scaling crawlers guide](./scaling-crawlers). Use <ApiLink to="class/ConcurrencySettings#__init__">`max_tasks_per_minute`</ApiLink> to cap the request rate. It's close to `DOWNLOAD_DELAY`, but it limits the whole pool rather than adding a fixed delay per domain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both Scrapy and Crawlee have settings to influence the scraping throughput, but they differ in their approach. Crawlee reads <ApiLink to="class/ConcurrencySettings">`ConcurrencySettings`</ApiLink> and scales concurrency automatically based on system resources, as described in the [Scaling crawlers guide](./scaling-crawlers). Use <ApiLink to="class/ConcurrencySettings#__init__">`max_tasks_per_minute`</ApiLink> to cap the request rate. It's close to `DOWNLOAD_DELAY`, but it limits the whole pool rather than adding a fixed delay per domain.
```

<Tabs groupId="scrapy-migration-concurrency">
    <TabItem value="scrapy" label="Scrapy">
        <CodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ScrapyConcurrencySource}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="crawlee" label="Crawlee">
        <RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ConcurrencyExample}
        </RunnableCodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> The closest built-in analog to the `AutoThrottle` extension is <ApiLink to="class/ThrottlingRequestManager">`ThrottlingRequestManager`</ApiLink>, covered in the [Request throttling guide](./request-throttling). It differs in what drives the backoff. `AutoThrottle` adapts to measured latency, while the manager reacts to explicit signals: HTTP 429 replies and `robots.txt` crawl-delay directives. It wraps a <ApiLink to="class/RequestQueue">`RequestQueue`</ApiLink> and applies the backoff per domain. You list the domains to watch, and the crawler reports the signals to the manager on its own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The closest built-in analog to the `AutoThrottle` extension is the <ApiLink to="class/ThrottlingRequestManager">`ThrottlingRequestManager`</ApiLink>, covered in the [Request throttling guide](./request-throttling). It differs in what drives the backoff. Scrapy's `AutoThrottle` adapts to measured latency, while Crawlee's manager reacts to explicit signals: HTTP 429 replies and `robots.txt` crawl-delay directives. It wraps a <ApiLink to="class/RequestQueue">`RequestQueue`</ApiLink> and applies the backoff per domain. You list the domains to watch, and the crawler reports the signals to the manager on its own.
```

> Crawl-delay works only when the crawler fetches `robots.txt`. A project generated by `scrapy startproject` obeys `robots.txt`, but Crawlee doesn't by default. Pass <ApiLink to="class/BasicCrawler#__init__">`respect_robots_txt_file=True`</ApiLink> to keep that behavior. The flag enforces the `Disallow` rules on its own. It reads crawl-delay only together with <ApiLink to="class/ThrottlingRequestManager">`ThrottlingRequestManager`</ApiLink>, and without the manager the crawler logs a warning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Crawl-delay works only when the crawler fetches `robots.txt`. Projects generated by `scrapy startproject` obey `robots.txt` out of the box, but the default for Crawlee is to ignore it. Passing <ApiLink to="class/BasicCrawler#__init__">`respect_robots_txt_file=True`</ApiLink> tells Crawlee to enforce the `Disallow` rules. Together with <ApiLink to="class/ThrottlingRequestManager">`ThrottlingRequestManager`</ApiLink> it also reads crawl-delay, otherwise it logs a warning.
```

            {ScrapyErrbackSource}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="crawlee" label="Crawlee">
        <RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ErrorHandlingExample}
        </RunnableCodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Forms and login

Scrapy submits forms with `FormRequest`, which encodes `formdata` as `form-urlencoded` and sets the header for you. Crawlee's <ApiLink to="class/Request#from_url">`payload`</ApiLink> takes the raw request body, so encode the fields yourself with `urllib.parse.urlencode` and set the `Content-Type` through `headers=`. For a full login flow with session reuse, see the [Logging in with a crawler guide](./logging-in-with-a-crawler).

<Tabs groupId="scrapy-migration-login">
    <TabItem value="scrapy" label="Scrapy">
        <CodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {ScrapyFormRequestSource}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="crawlee" label="Crawlee">
        <RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {PostExample}
        </RunnableCodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## JavaScript rendering

> For pages that need a browser, Scrapy users add the `scrapy-playwright` package, which requires extra settings to register its download handlers and the asyncio reactor. Crawlee has browser support built in through <ApiLink to="class/PlaywrightCrawler">`PlaywrightCrawler`</ApiLink>, with nothing to register. The handler receives a [Playwright `Page`](https://playwright.dev/python/docs/api/class-page) on <ApiLink to="class/PlaywrightCrawlingContext#page">`context.page`</ApiLink>, so you query the rendered DOM instead of a static response. For details, see the [Playwright crawler guide](./playwright-crawler).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For pages that need a browser, Scrapy users add the `scrapy-playwright` package, which requires extra settings to register its download handlers and the asyncio reactor. Crawlee has browser support built in through the <ApiLink to="class/PlaywrightCrawler">`PlaywrightCrawler`</ApiLink>. The handler receives a [Playwright `Page`](https://playwright.dev/python/docs/api/class-page) on <ApiLink to="class/PlaywrightCrawlingContext#page">`context.page`</ApiLink>, so you query the rendered DOM instead of a static response. For details, see the [Playwright crawler guide](./playwright-crawler).
```

<Tabs groupId="scrapy-migration-playwright">
    <TabItem value="scrapy" label="Scrapy">

>         <CodeBlock className="language-python" language="python" title="settings.py">

Reviewer 2: Here you are using `title="settings.py"`, but I think it's missing in a lot of the examples above. In some I noticed `# settings.py` on the first line instead.

            {ScrapyPlaywrightSettingsSource}
        </CodeBlock>
        <CodeBlock className="language-python" language="python" title="quotes_js.py">
            {ScrapyPlaywrightSource}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="crawlee" label="Crawlee">
        <RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
            {PlaywrightExample}
        </RunnableCodeBlock>
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> <ApiLink to="class/PlaywrightCrawler">`PlaywrightCrawler`</ApiLink> renders every request. In Scrapy you flag individual requests with `meta={'playwright': True}` and leave the rest on the plain downloader. For that mix in Crawlee, use <ApiLink to="class/AdaptivePlaywrightCrawler">`AdaptivePlaywrightCrawler`</ApiLink>, which renders in a browser only when a page needs it. For details, see the [Adaptive Playwright crawler guide](./adaptive-playwright-crawler).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<ApiLink to="class/PlaywrightCrawler">`PlaywrightCrawler`</ApiLink> renders every request. In Scrapy you flag individual requests with `meta={'playwright': True}` and leave the rest on the plain downloader. For that mix in Crawlee, use <ApiLink to="class/AdaptivePlaywrightCrawler">`AdaptivePlaywrightCrawler`</ApiLink>, which renders in a browser only when the page needs it. For details, see the [Adaptive Playwright crawler guide](./adaptive-playwright-crawler).
```
